Feature/docs (#27)
68publishers/consent-management-platform: docs/development.md

<h1 align="center">Development Guide</h1>
</div>

<br>

## Table of Contents
* [Stack](#stack)
* [ENV variables](#env-variables)
* [Frontend](#frontend)
* [Fixtures](#fixtures)
* [Sending emails](#sending-emails)
* [API and integration](#api-and-integration)
* [How to update to the latest version](#how-to-update-to-the-latest-version)
* [Contributing](#contributing)

## Stack

The application runs in Docker and consists of [three services](../docker-compose.yml):

1) App - Nginx webserver with PHP `7.4`, composer and yarn
2) Db - PostgreSQL in the version `13.6`
3) Redis - Redis in the version `5.0.8`

The container names are `cmp-app`, `cmp-db` and `cmp-redis`.
You can connect to each of the containers using the following command

```sh
$ docker exec -it <CONTAINER_NAME> sh 
```

The migration to PHP 8.x is of course planned soon, but for the time being we had to stick with version 7.4 for internal reasons.

## ENV Variables

The application needs several correctly set ENV variables to run correctly.
In the default installation, the variables are set for the application to work, but for production use, some of them need to be set/re-set

> | Variable name               | Type               | Default                     | Additional info                                                                                                  |

Author: Added new column `Required`.

$ yarn run encore prod # or `dev` 
```

## Fixtures

Default demo data is automatically imported when the application is [installed](../README.md#installation).
If you want to restart the data, you can do id by running the following command:

```sh
$ make data
```

Alternatively:

```sh
$ docker exec -it cmp-app sh
$ bin/console doctrine:fixtures:load
```

:exclamation: Do not run fixtures on production!

## Sending emails

By default, emails are sent using the PHP function `mail()`. However, the `sendmail` extension is not installed in the container and therefore emails are not sent.
For this reason, you need to configure the SMPT server through the ENV variables.
For example, Google's SMTP server configuration would look something like this:

```sh
SMTP_ENABLED=1
SMTP_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
SMTP_PORT=465
SMTP_USERNAME=your email address
SMTP_PASSWORD=your token
SMTP_SECURE=ssl
```

If the debug mode is enabled (`APP_DEBUG=1` or the user has set the `APP_DEBUG_COOKIE_SECRET` cookie in the browser), the emails are ALWAYS saved to local files and can be viewed in the Tracy Bar

<img src="images/tracy-bar-mails.png" alt="Emails in the Tracy Bar" width="400">

## API and integration

> The application exposes out API to communicate with the cookie bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application exposes our API to communicate with the cookie widget.
```

We should use "widget" instead of "bar". Tracy bar is OK 🙂
